Boma: Hello.
Boma: Hello, good afternoon, I think maybe we can wait for one more minute, then.
Boma: Oh, begin.
Boma: I don't know, are we okay to join, to start? Because the last call, Felix was unable to join, and I'm not sure if he'll be joining this one, so…
Boma: Chase, I don't know if you have anything to say on this.
Chase Wright: Sorry, sorry, you talking to me? What's the question?
Boma: Yeah, I don't know if Felix would be able to join, as the last call we had, he didn't join, so…
Chase Wright: I don't know.
Chase Wright: I, I haven't spoke to him.
Boma: the thing is, we need someone to, like, at least… there's some peers that I think they're okay to merge. I don't know if.
Chase Wright: I mean, technically, Carrie can merge PRs, but if we need Felix to review, then we'll have to.
Boma: Oh.
Chase Wright: Off one.
Boma: Okay, I think he's here.
Felix (Geth): Yup.
Boma: I think I can share my screen.
Chase Wright: There he is.
Felix (Geth): Honey, I'm here.
Boma: Hello?
Boma: So, good afternoon, everybody. Good day. Welcome to ROPC Core Standard 28, and…
Boma: I think we sort of had, like, a release,
Boma: on the versioning we've been working on. I'm not sure I understand how my screen works.
Boma: So, can you still see my screen?
Chase Wright: Yes.
Felix (Geth): Yes, we can see your entire screen.
Boma: Okay.
Boma: So this is… I don't know if, Kerry, you have something to say about the release, because you made it, so maybe a brief introduction of how this will go on from now onwards. And also, there was a comment on,
Boma: a CD on the general chat on Discord about,
Boma: This sort of thing that she's had to reply, so how do we also make an announcement in regards to that?
kclowes: I can talk a little bit about the,
kclowes: the release and the documentation, Dane and his team finished up,
kclowes: Their work that they've been working on, to do…
kclowes: that we have multiple versions now for release. So, what I'm hoping to do with this is, make it easier for both, like, clients to be passing the RPC Compet test, and then also for consumers to be able to…
kclowes: have implemented. And, like, hopefully all the clients are on the same page, but, to be able to see
kclowes: What methods and what is coming back.
kclowes: And what the parameters are for the, methods.
kclowes: So, yeah, so you can see we have, we have a bunch of different versions now. Mostly, we're just debugging the release process, but the latest is 1.0.0 Beta 7,
kclowes: I…
kclowes: I think we might want to do, like, a 1.0 when Glamsterdam ships, maybe? But open to opinions on that. I'm not sure that it quite makes sense to move
kclowes: In lockstep with… The hard forks, for this repo.
kclowes: But yeah, open to opinions, so…
kclowes: Yeah, pretty exciting, and it looks great. So, thank you, Zane.
Zane Starr: Thanks. We're excited to see all of this go down, sir.
Zane Starr: Yeah, and then versions… we're excited for versioning.
Boma: Oh, thank you. It really looks nice. This is more like our own, smaller heart fork, so…
Boma: I guess we can… when we kind of, like, have, maybe move out from the beta or something, then we can…
Boma: make, a sort of an announcement, because there was a discussion about something similar. I don't know, Chase, you had a reply to it about,
Boma: I can't recall what the exact conversation was all about, but I know I saw something about, someone think from the…
Boma: Either testing team or eat bundles about this.
Chase Wright: I'm not sure what you're referring to, honestly.
Boma: I mean, there was a conversation, on the…
Boma: I can't record which channel, that's the problem. But yeah, okay, we can move on. But yeah, I just lose grade, and…
Boma: hopefully it works well for us. So, the next conversation would be…
Boma: some… there's these periods I want us to close, because it has already been addressed, and then there's another issue.
Boma: that someone opened, I think it's a spam.
Boma: It is true.
Boma: So true.
Boma: So, D… 5…
Boma: 353 has been addressed, on a different PR, and that this issue is a spam, then this other pull request also has been addressed, confirmed by Nicole.
Boma: So, if you can close it up, that would be nice. And then the next open item has to do with error codes. There has been so many conversations around it.
Boma: And I lost track of all of them, so I think, if Sims or Chase are here, they can…
Boma: Walk us more through it.
Chase Wright: I mean.
Boma: and so on.
Chase Wright: So, yeah, I mean, I opened the issue, obviously, because,
Chase Wright: Well, there's… there's a lot of problems.
Chase Wright: The… right now, Cena has a… has a draft PR, for…
Chase Wright: Kind of resolving the current issues.
Chase Wright: for the most part, with… with the catalog. The…
Chase Wright: Simpson, the other, individual, said that he would take a look at it and try to make a…
Chase Wright: make a fix to the catalog, but I haven't… I haven't seen anything from him. I've… I looked at Sina's PR, and I think it's fine, but I, like…
Chase Wright: I know Felix… You have far stronger opinions on it than… than I do.
Felix (Geth): We have a longer response also in the PR to basically just to summarize the situation. So the way I see it is that the initial set of codes that were proposed was more like a demo of the feature, unless they weren't, like, also these, like, groups that were proposed originally weren't
Felix (Geth): gonna be the final ones, so I feel like…
Felix (Geth): Now is the time to go and really decide things, and
Felix (Geth): It is a bit strange that we are now specifying these eSimulate error codes to be the canonical codes for everything.
Felix (Geth): But it is kind of what… Somehow, the alternative
Felix (Geth): We would… would be to define eSimilatev2, and then change all the error codes, and just…
Chase Wright: Right.
Felix (Geth): Doing that just for the codes alone is a bit strange as well, because it's gonna cause some disruption in the client side for no reason, so I feel like we might just be stuck with these codes that were defined for…
Felix (Geth): somehow, and… We just have to live with it.
Felix (Geth): It's…
Felix (Geth): I don't really mind what the actual codes are, I just want us to all agree on the same.
Chase Wright: Yeah, I kinda agree with that as well. I… and I think the…
Chase Wright: I think the major holdup right now is around the…
Chase Wright: JSON standard errors and JSON non-standard errors. And I think, for the most part, all of us…
Chase Wright: Mostly agree that we shouldn't define them, and because they are standard.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, I…
Chase Wright: I'm…
Felix (Geth): So, first of all, it doesn't make any sense for us to list every possible JSON or PC standard error on every method, because it is just normal that these errors can always be returned by the server for any reason.
Felix (Geth): There is no way for us to specify that. It can literally be as simple as the server just crashed due to the execution of the method, so then it's gonna return, like, some kind of internal error. This is just always possible.
Felix (Geth): And then the other thing is, this other list with the JSON RPC non-standard errors.
Felix (Geth): I just don't understand it. Like, this is kind of this, like, unspecific list of errors that might occur, and I think…
Felix (Geth): we should rather be more specific about it. So these two categories, I just don't understand.
Chase Wright: Yeah, and I… I agree there. I think the… the thing… or the thinking behind adding the standard errors was that
Chase Wright: the tool would need to know about them, but, like, we can just bake that into the tool, or tools. I also think… Yeah.
Felix (Geth): It's just something that is… that is possible. And it is just how… I mean, these… they… they are always… they can always be returned. Also, for example, invalid parameters, like any method
Felix (Geth): can have invalid parameters, and then… unless it has no parameters, but even then, if you call a method that has no defined parameters with parameters, it will also error. So there's just… there's always this possibility that if you call it wrong, it's gonna return this error.
Felix (Geth): So there's no need for us in the application specification to tell that to the user.
Chase Wright: Yeah, and I think Sina's PR is kind of addressing that, and so it's doing what you suggested, where we remove all those duplicate,
Chase Wright: Like, this is just an invalid param, so we don't need it.
Chase Wright: But I don't know,
Chase Wright: I don't know what the next step is, like… Casinos…
Felix (Geth): That for us is to just decide this formally, and then merge it, I guess.
Felix (Geth): That's what we want.
Chase Wright: I know Cena's PR is in draft, and I reviewed it, and I think it's okay, but to your point, it is kind of just pulling in those…
Chase Wright: ETH simulate error codes.
Felix (Geth): No.
Felix (Geth): I guess no one is really happy about this, but at the same time, it just feels like the least disruptive thing to do right now for the… for this… this is mostly for us to… to… to just not have any kind of mismatch between e-simulate errors and regular errors.
Felix (Geth): to that point, I don't re… I also don't care about having this mismatch. I don't think that the error codes used by ETH Simulate are necessarily, like, good ones, it's just that they were there first, and also.
Felix (Geth): eSimulate V1 had a very, very long specification process that yielded… in some ways, was trying to do things on the…
Felix (Geth): API that we just didn't have a solution for, like, for example, defining all the errors, like, they spent a lot of time actually coming up with this error specification before we had the error specification for any other method, because they just wanted to… the spec… the…
Felix (Geth): standardization process for that method was completely separate from the rest of the API in some ways. They had their own calls, coming up with their own thing, and…
Felix (Geth): I would also be fine with just saying, yeah, well, eSimulate V1 is just special. It just has its own errors, because it had its own spec process. But somehow, that is also unpopular.
Felix (Geth): that opinion.
Felix (Geth): So, yeah, in the end, I don't care. I honestly… I literally don't care. I just want to make progress on the codes, like, on having defined codes.
Felix (Geth): And if that's what it takes, then…
Felix (Geth): Let's just do it. We just need some agreement here.
Boma: I think, we have someone from Erigon. Can you weigh in on this, so we have much, better opinions?
Tullio | Erigon: Yeah, I think I agree with Felix. The important thing is to have progress on… on this, about…
Tullio | Erigon: Error code specifically. I mean, which category, which values.
Tullio | Erigon: And… okay, it's important to go on.
Tullio | Erigon: And that is a standout.
Tullio | Erigon: Great.
Chase Wright: Alright, well, I don't think we're gonna solve it on this particular call. Let me go back and talk to Sina again, and then see if I can get Simpson on the same page, and then…
Chase Wright: If we can just come up with a compromise, we'll…
Chase Wright: We'll work on it async and see what.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, but it is definitely very close. I also feel like now we have everything on the table, so that's fine.
Chase Wright: Yeah.
Boma: Okay, think we can move on to the next PR, which is 795.
Boma: This, it has been reviewed, but, not yet matched.
Chase Wright: It looks like the CI needs to kick off, right?
Boma: Yeah.
Boma: But I… What's about this one?
kclowes: I've had, merge conflicts last week, but I can kick off CI real fast. It looks like those have been fixed, so I think it's ready.
Boma: So, I don't know, are we imagining it, or…
Chase Wright: I think the consensus is we can merge it once CI is green, so… We'll do…
Boma: Okay, thank you.
Boma: Mmm, so moving on to the next one should be ITC1.
Boma: Yeah, this is yours, Chase.
Chase Wright: Yeah, this actually can wait.
Chase Wright: The Go Ethereum changes are done, but it's not merged. Nethermind…
Chase Wright: They had a reg… so, this method was based off of NetherMind's implementation, and then NetherMind has a regression in their client, making it not pass and not work anymore. So, they're taking a look at that. So, this is just pending
Chase Wright: feedback from Nethermind, and if they're gonna… adopt…
Chase Wright: the way that it was. So, I mean, in theory, this is… this is good. It's passing on Geth, if Geth merges it, and I'm just waiting for another mine to fix their bug. If they fix it, then we'll have two clients
Chase Wright: Matching, and then… We just need to get,
Chase Wright: like, Erigon and everybody else to implement it.
Boma: So, sorry, but I didn't like, walking towards it, or…
Chase Wright: Yeah, yeah, there's… I mean, there's an open issue, and they have PRs open, and they're being reviewed, so… it's just…
Boma: Oh, okay.
Chase Wright: Let's just move it till the next meeting.
Boma: Alright, thank you.
Chase Wright: Yeah.
Boma: and… This needs the CI to run, also, I think.
Boma: Yeah.
Boma: So I'm not sure if, anyone can, like, kick off the CI, then review the PR also.
kclowes: I don't see a button to kick off CI, I think it's just…
kclowes: GitHub, but I'll, again, maybe push an empty commit, or something like that.
Boma: Sorry, I didn't get that.
kclowes: I, I think I might have to push an empty commit to run CI. I think there's something happening with, like, the…
kclowes: There's, like, a bug in the UI or something?
Boma: Okay.
kclowes: See what I can do.
Boma: Okay, thank you.
Boma: Okay…
Boma: Didn't necessarily use this.
Chase Wright: Yes, there… there really hasn't been any updates or changes here. The last time we talked about this,
Chase Wright: Felix, you said that you needed time to review it?
Chase Wright: And I think that was where we… where we left off.
Boma: I remember that was our last Two calls, thereabout.
Chase Wright: Like, as far as I know, if we… if this is ran against GoEthereum, it passes,
Chase Wright: But, yeah, I mean, we still need…
Chase Wright: You still need review from Felix, I suppose.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, that's true.
Boma: So, is this something that we can do now, since… although it's pretty big, like… Thousand plus.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, I mean, not really. I really just have to review it, and yeah, I mean, it's a thousand lines of… but it's mostly tests, like, the actual…
Felix (Geth): The actual spec is not that large, I guess.
Boma: Yeah.
Felix (Geth): It just has a bunch of tests, and… I mean, it has…
Felix (Geth): a lot of this Treasure stuff. So, can I again ask the question, like, so, we have sign-off from all the clients on this, or…
Felix (Geth): I'm somehow not sure.
Chase Wright: Yeah, I mean, everyone has basically given it thumbs up. There's been a… there's been a bit of back and forth around the memory bloat.
Felix (Geth): Yeah.
Chase Wright: But, I mean, that's been a problem for, like, 10 years, so, like, it's not a new problem, and I think everyone has mostly been like, yeah, okay, it's… it's a thing, it's a problem, but…
Chase Wright: it's not gonna get fixed in this PR, right? We're mostly just documenting
Chase Wright: the standard as how it… how it operates today. And… Besu went out and… implemented it, and Nethermind.
Chase Wright: fix their stuff to Erigon. All the major clients have thumbs up it and have implementations and merged stuff, so as far as I know, it's good.
Felix (Geth): Yup.
Chase Wright: Yeah, alright.
Felix (Geth): I will… I will…
Chase Wright: I mean, I'm the first to admit it's not a perfect standard, but neither was the original.
Felix (Geth): No, no, no, no, no, I mean, I don't think it's a great achievement that we have this at all, and I definitely have to review it. I will… I will do it today. I'm sorry, the last time I… I…
Felix (Geth): I didn't get to it, but I still wanna really check it in detail, and I didn't get to it yet. I'm really sorry about this.
Chase Wright: That's alright.
Felix (Geth): But it is… I will… I… I… that's all I can do now.
Boma: Okay… So, we have this…
Boma: But it's still undraftable, I think, Kira, you can…
Chase Wright: Yeah, actually, I wanted to talk about this one, too, because I was looking at it.
Chase Wright: And Felix, I'm glad you're here, because you probably would have more insight into this one.
Chase Wright: So, in… in Hive, someone made a change to the tests, or the configuration of the deposit.
Chase Wright: contract address, such that it defaults over to the mainnet, address, and then… but, hiveChain doesn't deploy a con… a deposit contract. It's true.
Felix (Geth): We don't actually have any contract there. Yeah, that's true.
Chase Wright: Yeah, and so…
Chase Wright: this PR is changing the contract address to mainnet, but I don't think this PR would survive a hive chain regeneration. I think…
Felix (Geth): We have to… we have to actually generate… regenerate the chain, yeah. But that should be no problem, like, that's the whole point of… of the test generation pipeline. You can just… we could just regenerate, the chain by running the script, and then we can…
Felix (Geth): Regenerate the test based on the chain, and it should all just work.
Felix (Geth): Like, there's no…
Chase Wright: Right, but the problem is… There is no deployed con- contract.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, but it doesn't matter, because we don't actually access this in the tests. It's just that the…
Felix (Geth): The deposit contract is mostly…
Felix (Geth): used by the… by the CL, but we don't… inside of the test chain, we don't interact with the deposit contract at all, so it doesn't…
Felix (Geth): Matter for the purposes of this… these tests.
Chase Wright: So, my only… Counter there is that… It's kind of…
Chase Wright: Like, it's… it's a lie to say that the deposit contract address is mainnet in this.
Felix (Geth): I mean, I can add the deposit contract into the chain, it's fine, it's just that it's kind of a big contract, and it doesn't give us any benefit, so that's why I didn't…
Chase Wright: soon.
Tullio | Erigon: Yeah, but I think there is something else going on here, because… Currently, the
Tullio | Erigon: The expected, value from
Tullio | Erigon: for example, if config response is to have this deposit contract 0, which matches what you are saying, that there is no deposit contract in IveChain, but if I look at
Tullio | Erigon: the initialization,
Tullio | Erigon: run for Erigon, the client launch, I can see in the config that the deposit contract address is, in fact, non-zero. So I think there is a mismatch.
Tullio | Erigon: between the expected value in if config.
Tullio | Erigon: And, the deposit contract, which is passed in…
Tullio | Erigon: in the… in the chain config for… for… even if maybe there is no deposit contract, okay, but so… if so, there is a mismatch in the config, I think.
Tullio | Erigon: Sorry? Because the config contains a deposit contract address.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, I mean, that's the thing, we just have to regenerate the test, and then it will be okay. Like, the ETH config…
Tullio | Erigon: Yeah, yeah.
Felix (Geth): So…
Felix (Geth): It is… it is dependent on this value, yes. The test output is dependent on this value, even though there's no contract.
Tullio | Erigon: Yeah, yeah, okay.
Felix (Geth): It's just because we have an RPC endpoint that reads the config, and it returns this.
Tullio | Erigon: Yeah, huh.
Felix (Geth): So, is…
Tullio | Erigon: It's… it's… it's the config to be fixed, not the… not the response.
Felix (Geth): So the current response contains the mainnet address? I'm not sure, I think it shouldn't.
Tullio | Erigon: No, it contains zero.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, exactly. So if we change the config, then we also have to change the test output, but this will happen when you regenerate the test.
Felix (Geth): So it's just, you regenerate, so we regenerate the chain, Which will update the config.
Felix (Geth): And then we…
Tullio | Erigon: Oh, and that's it, because the… the response already contains zero.
Tullio | Erigon: I think.
Tullio | Erigon: Just back to the restrooms.
Felix (Geth): Cheers.
Tullio | Erigon: This PR is changing the expected response from 0 to a non-zero value, but it's not merged, right?
Felix (Geth): It is not merged.
Boma: Sorry, I guess I'm lost, but how do we regenerate the chain? You said something about regenerating the chain, I don't understand.
Felix (Geth): There is a whole hype chain that can be used to regenerate the chain. There's a script inside of the test that does this.
Felix (Geth): You just need to run the script, and it will update.
Chase Wright: But, so, that was what I was saying about this is not… this particular… this PR, as it sits right now, is not HiveChain region safe, because if you run that tool right now, it's going to rewrite it to 0x0.
Felix (Geth): because…
Chase Wright: Or…
Felix (Geth): Oh, why?
Chase Wright: Okay.
Felix (Geth): I don't think so. I mean, it changes in the conflict, so then it should just be fine.
Felix (Geth): I will take a look at this, I'm sorry. I know how to… we will find a resolution for this. There's no… Yeah, yeah, thank you.
Tullio | Erigon: Of course.
Boma: Okay, thank you.
Boma: Yeah, this, this PR is kind of, like, blocking, one of Sina's PR.
Boma: I had to reopen… it… I had a rebase, I did not understand how to resolve the conflict.
Boma: We already talked about this, like, 3, calls ago.
Felix (Geth): Yo.
Felix (Geth): So, is there anything blocking this? Can we literally just merge it?
Boma: Yeah, we can merge it, then we now look… move over to Sina's PR, because these changes affect Sina's PR. We need to, like, bump it first before…
Boma: looking at one of the Sinas PR, so… but it's…
Felix (Geth): Do you mean, like, the one about the notifications, or…
Boma: Yeah, Diaz, that one.
Felix (Geth): So we can… this PR, bumping the schema version, We can just do, yeah?
Boma: Yes, yes.
Felix (Geth): Okay, so let's just merge it.
Felix (Geth): I'm just gonna mudge it right now.
Boma: Okay.
Felix (Geth): Thank you.
Felix (Geth): Okay, so it's done.
Felix (Geth): I mean, there should be no consequences from this, except that we are referencing a newer version, and let's see if this causes problems.
Boma: Okay.
Boma: So the last thing on the call is this other one.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, we've been there a couple times.
Boma: Yep.
Felix (Geth): I still don't know. So, we, the filled transaction, we have discussed it a bunch of times, and one of the things here is that there was this feedback that we used to return the raw transaction alongside the JSON encoded one, but there could be a mismatch between these two.
Felix (Geth): things, when interacting with a hostile RPC provider.
Felix (Geth): This…
Felix (Geth): has been resolved by removing the raw transaction ROP output, so it now just contains the JSON output.
Felix (Geth): If this is okay with clients, I'm happy to just merge it.
Felix (Geth): I mean, I think… Fill transaction is important.
Felix (Geth): It's, it is our stepping stone toward removing support for each send transaction.
Felix (Geth): from this specification, so, you know, I feel like I'm happy to just…
Felix (Geth): Budge this if everyone agrees that this is what we're doing.
Boma: If we can get thumbs up from Erigon, that would be also nice.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, at the moment, it doesn't have…
Felix (Geth): It doesn't have a lot of reviews on it.
Felix (Geth): It's kind of a replacement for the older PR, which…
Tullio | Erigon: Okay, I need… we… we need to take a look, but generally speaking, I think we are… we are not against it.
Felix (Geth): No.
Boma: Okay.
Felix (Geth): We do have to… I think this thing, we have to bring it up also in Nethermind, because Nethermind was the party who most…
Felix (Geth): had comments.
Felix (Geth): So Nethermind had had… We're the ones that brought up the original issue, and… we…
Felix (Geth): I don't know if they… I feel like they should also sign off on this.
Felix (Geth): I think they will, but we have to bring them on the call, or somehow get ahold of them.
Felix (Geth): Async to agree to this.
Boma: Okay, I guess, I can tag,
Boma: One of the team members to this, and then…
Felix (Geth): Yeah, that would be good.
Boma: Or probably Lucas, I don't know, yeah, but…
Boma: I think that's the only thing. I don't know if anyone has any other thing to add to the agenda, then we can look at it, because that's all we have.
Chase Wright: The only… I just posted one thing in the chat, and it's the…
Boma: Okay.
Chase Wright: default block param to latest on state methods.
Chase Wright: Everyone except Erigon and ethrex have… merged?
Chase Wright: So, Tulio, if you could, put eyes on it, that would be great, but otherwise…
Tullio | Erigon: Yeah, I'll do, I'll do.
Chase Wright: Yeah, everyone is already merged. It's in GoEthereum, it's in all the clients. Everyone passes the tests.
Chase Wright: So… That's… that's the last one.
Boma: Okay.
Boma: But, like, is it… This being on draft, doesn't it signify that it's not ready to be merged?
Chase Wright: Oh, yeah, that's on me, I could probably… well, I was waiting for Erigon, at least, to do it, but… yeah, good, good point. I'll, I'll mark it ready.
Boma: Okay.
Boma: I don't know, but that's all from me, and I think it's okay to end the call here.
Felix (Geth): Yeah, I'd appreciate it. We have an event going on here, so I kind of want to get back to the event.
Boma: Oh, okay. Thank you all for joining, and see you guys next two weeks.
Chase Wright: Why?
Tullio | Erigon: Bye.
Boma: But we should also make announcements about our, releases.
Chase Wright: Yeah, I think we should… we need to figure out when we want to do the first release. Do we want to wait for Glamsterdam, or do we want to just…
Chase Wright: Send it.
Felix (Geth): I mean, if you guys feel happy with the current state, I mean, there are still some… maybe some small things to get in, but everyone, I think, is just also quite ready to say, like, let's just wrap up this whole versioning
Felix (Geth): Thread, and… just move on.
Chase Wright: Yep.
Boma: Yeah, I agree with that.
kclowes: Alright.
Felix (Geth): haven't really taken a look at the whole release pipeline. Sorry, I'm really happy that you guys shipped it, but I have no…
Felix (Geth): I didn't really have time to seriously look at it.
Chase Wright: I'd like to fix the Hive deposit contract thing first, maybe, and then we can do a V1. That would make sense.
kclowes: Yeah, that makes sense to me.
Chase Wright: Right.
Boma: Alright, thank you. Bye-bye.
Chase Wright: Beautiful.
Felix (Geth): Bye.
Tullio | Erigon: Bye.